README.rst, before:

=========
deepmerge
=========

.. image:: https://github.com/toumorokoshi/deepmerge/actions/workflows/python-package.yaml/badge.svg
    :target: https://github.com/toumorokoshi/deepmerge/actions/workflows/python-package.yaml

A tools to handle merging of
nested data structures in python.

------------
Installation
------------

deepmerge is available on `pypi <https://pypi.python.org/>`_:

.. code-block:: bash

   pip install deepmerge

-------
Example
-------

**Generic Strategy**

.. code-block:: python

    from deepmerge import always_merger

    base = {"foo": ["bar"]}
    next = {"foo": ["baz"]}

    expected_result = {'foo': ['bar', 'baz']}
    result = always_merger.merge(base, next)

    assert expected_result == result


**Custom Strategy**

.. code-block:: python

    from deepmerge import Merger

    my_merger = Merger(
        # pass in a list of tuple, with the
        # strategies you are looking to apply
        # to each type.
        [
            (list, ["append"]),
            (dict, ["merge"]),
            (set, ["union"])
        ],
        # next, choose the fallback strategies,
        # applied to all other types:
        ["override"],
        # finally, choose the strategies in
        # the case where the types conflict:
        ["override"]
    )
    base = {"foo": ["bar"]}
    next = {"bar": "baz"}
    my_merger.merge(base, next)
    assert base == {"foo": ["bar"], "bar": "baz"}


You can also pass in your own merge functions, instead of a string.

For more information, see the `docs <https://deepmerge.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_

Commit message:

feat: add typing / drop Python < 3.8 support (#30)
since python2 and many versions of 3.7 are end-of-life, and type hints would be be valuable for the developer experience, remove support for these EOL versions of Python while adding type hints.

Fixes: #27 

At a high level the following changes have been made:

- Update code to use new features available from 3.8 (e.g. `f"{foo=}` notation).
- Type annotations
  - note: Because we use `from __future__ import annotations` we can use "new style" annotations (e.g. `str | list[int] | None` instead of `Optional[Union[str, List[int]]]`) which are normally only available in higher versions of python. However it does mean that these annotations cannot be resolved from their string representation (all type annotations are stored as strings which is why this works) into their concrete classes unless you are running a supported version of Python.
- Completely move to `pyrproject.toml`
- Move all development dependencies to `pyproject.toml`, make `make .venv` more portable
  - `virtualenv` isn't always available so use `-m venv .venv` which is just as effective, and not all systems have `python(2)` installed or `python3-is-python` so explicitly use `python3`
- Add some new badges to README

README.rst, after:

=========
deepmerge
=========

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/deepmerge.svg
   :target: https://pypi.org/project/deepmerge/

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/status/deepmerge.svg
   :target: https://pypi.org/project/deepmerge/

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/pillar.svg
   :target: https://github.com/toumorokoshi/deepmerge

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/github/license/toumorokoshi/deepmerge.svg
   :target: https://github.com/toumorokoshi/deepmerge

.. image:: https://github.com/toumorokoshi/deepmerge/actions/workflows/python-package.yaml/badge.svg
    :target: https://github.com/toumorokoshi/deepmerge/actions/workflows/python-package.yaml

A tool to handle merging of nested data structures in Python.

------------
Installation
------------

deepmerge is available on `pypi <https://pypi.org/project/deepmerge/>`_:

.. code-block:: bash

   pip install deepmerge

-------
Example
-------

**Generic Strategy**

.. code-block:: python

    from deepmerge import always_merger

    base = {"foo": ["bar"]}
    next = {"foo": ["baz"]}

    expected_result = {'foo': ['bar', 'baz']}
    result = always_merger.merge(base, next)

    assert expected_result == result


**Custom Strategy**

.. code-block:: python

    from deepmerge import Merger

    my_merger = Merger(
        # pass in a list of tuple, with the
        # strategies you are looking to apply
        # to each type.
        [
            (list, ["append"]),
            (dict, ["merge"]),
            (set, ["union"])
        ],
        # next, choose the fallback strategies,
        # applied to all other types:
        ["override"],
        # finally, choose the strategies in
        # the case where the types conflict:
        ["override"]
    )
    base = {"foo": ["bar"]}
    next = {"bar": "baz"}
    my_merger.merge(base, next)
    assert base == {"foo": ["bar"], "bar": "baz"}


You can also pass in your own merge functions, instead of a string.

For more information, see the `docs <https://deepmerge.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_

------------------
Supported Versions
------------------

deepmerge is supported on Python 3.8+.

For older Python versions the last supported version of deepmerge is listed
below:

- 3.7 : 1.1.1
